Collaborative Air-Ground Target Searching in Complex Environments

A unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and unmanned ground vehicle (UGV) are used to cooperatively locate a target in an environment with unknown obstacles. The environment is mapped by the UAV prior to UGV movement and the information is transmitted to the UGV for obstacle avoidance and route planning. The UGV begins movement towards the target once the UAV has returned to the UGV after completing its mapping task. During UGV movement, the UAV autonomously follows the UGV while searching for the target marker. An extended Kalman filter (EKF) is used to estimate the UGVs position and speed relative in the global reference frame (GRF), as well as the target location, if it is detected in the camera field-of-view. The estimated position of the UAV, UGV, and target are all translated to the (GRF) by determining the distance from the camera to the center of the UAV body frame, and by determining the UAVs location in the GRF. As the UGV position is estimated, real-time path planning is used to move the UGV towards the target location. Path planning is performed using previously published work and is discussed more briefly here. The process consists of defining an obstacle free space and generating a trajectory within it. The safe space is generated by defining simple geometric shapes of free space through which the UGV can safely travel. These are considered to be connectable nodes through which an A* algorithem can generate an optimal (minimal distance path). Three constraints are placed on the generated trajectory to ensure smoothness and prevent collision with obstacles. The UVG control is accomplished through individual PID control of each Mecanum wheel. Both centralized and distributed EKFs are tested where the computation is either split or centralized between vehicle processors. The primary system tests involved UGV obstacle avoidance without feedback from the UAV, and complete system tests on a 200 sq. meter environment. The paper did not publish detailed results of these tests but instead described them qualitatively and discussed drawbacks and potential improvements to the system.